Neil H Patterson was a normal middle class college student who did decently well, but nowhere near the top of his class. He majored in NHP research, and fervently studied psychology, believing that understanding even unshackled NHP's was simply a matter of time and effort. After graduating, he got himself a Job at Smith-Shimano Corpro designing systems to attempt to create and shackle NHP's for commercial and military use, while still continuing his own research on the side. He earned his nickname "Talker" when the NHP he was working on, TESTAMENT, began to cascade while a security operation was ongoing. With the normal method of cascade prevention temporarily unavailable, Neil somehow managed to talk TESTAMENT down, stopping the cascade by himself. After this event, he was promoted to lead his own team on a new project dedicated to learning about and understanding NHP psychology. The project, known as Project Antigone, only lasted for 5 years, despite significant progress by Neil and his team, it was to be shut down due to a lack of tangible results and funding. Fearing that the NHP he had been working with, POLYNICES, would be destroyed after the project was shut down, Neil uploaded POLYNICES to his own neural implants in an attempt to smuggle it out. During this process, POLYNICES cascaded, and Neil was unable to say or do anything about it without revealing what he had done. This event permanently changed Neil H Patterson, the most obvious of which being his ability to integrate and communicate with technology and other NHP's. After his project was shut down and he was let go, Neil Patterson joined a Mech Based mercenary group. Despite his obvious lack of training, he very quickly demonstrated a prodigious ability to control and use Mechs. Neil is a very easy going and happy person, constantly smiling and joking, however those who know him in battle also know about his uncanny total lack of empathy towards his fellow humans.